Docs: Templating notifications (#60109)
grafana/grafana: docs/sources/alerting/manage-notifications/template-notifications/write-templates.md

---
aliases:
keywords:
  - grafana
  - alerting
  - notifications
  - templates
  - write templates
title: Write templates
weight: 400
---

# Write templates

> You write message templates in Go's templating language, [text/template](https://pkg.go.dev/text/template). In the following topics we will look at how to write message templates, and then look at a number of more complex examples that you might want to use as a reference for customizing your notifications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You write message templates in Go's templating language, [text/template](https://pkg.go.dev/text/template). In the following topics, we look at how to write notification templates and provide more complex examples for you to use as a reference for customizing your notification messages.
```

Reviewer: Can we have a step by step here on how a user writes templates? Is there any order a user needs to follow?

Author: It's difficult to tell the user exactly what to write because with customization the user gets to make the template look how they want. There is a narrative on this page that guides the user on how to structure their template which might be sufficient?

> ## Opening and closing tags

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Open and close tags
```

Author: This one needs to keep the `ing` as its a noun

  {{ end }}
{{ end }}
```

However, indentation in the template will also be present in the text. Next we will see how to remove it.

## Remove spaces and line breaks

In text/template use `{{-` and `-}}` to remove leading and trailing spaces and line breaks.

For example, when using indentation and line breaks to make a template more readable:

```
{{ range .Alerts }}
  {{ range .Labels.SortedPairs }}
    {{ .Name }} = {{ .Value }}
  {{ end }}
{{ end }}
```

The indentation and line breaks will also be present in the text:

```
    alertname = "Test"

    grafana_folder = "Test alerts"
```

You can remove the indentation and line breaks from the text changing `}}` to `-}}` at the start of each range:

```
{{ range .Alerts -}}
  {{ range .Labels.SortedPairs -}}
    {{ .Name }} = {{ .Value }}
  {{ end }}
{{ end }}
```

The indentation and line breaks in the template are now absent from the text:

```
alertname = "Test"
grafana_folder = "Test alerts"
```

## Comments

You can add comments with `{{/*` and `*/}}`:

```
{{/* This is a comment */}}
```

To prevent comments from adding line breaks use:

```
{{- /* This is a comment with no leading or trailing line breaks */ -}}
```

> ## Defining a template

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Define a template
```

Author: Should it be plural `Define templates`?

Reviewer: yes..

You can define templates using `define` and the name of the template in double quotes. You should not define templates with the same name as other templates, including default templates such as `__subject`, `__text_values_list`, `__text_alert_list`, `default.title` and `default.message`. Where a template has been created with the same name as a default template, or a template in another message template, Grafana might use either template. Grafana does not prevent, or show an error message, when there are two or more templates with the same name.

```
{{ define "print_labels" }}
{{ end }}
```

> ## Executing a template

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Execute a template
```

Author: Should it be plural `Execute templates`?

Reviewer: yea sounds good

You can execute defined templates using `template`, the name of the template in double quotes, and the cursor that should be passed to the template:

```
{{ template "print_labels" . }}
```

> ## Passing data to templates

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Pass data to templates
```
